---
title:       Use Bcc
date:        2015-01-19
image:       /images/bcc.jpg
description: Reminder to not send mass emails.
---

I have a new feature request for email applications: __if there are a multitutde of addresses in the "To:" field, recommend the author use Bcc__ (and give a checkbox with the option to never ask this question again).

Let us begin with this sage tweet from [Marty Bauer](https://twitter.com/bauermarty):

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" data-lang="en"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Sending a mass email and not bcc&#39;ing everyone is like a kicker missing an extra point. You had one job.</p>&mdash; Marty Bauer (@bauermarty) <a href="https://twitter.com/bauermarty/status/553279657890816001">January 8, 2015</a></blockquote>
<script async src="//platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

## What is Bcc?
For those of you who've never thought twice about this email field, it stands for _blind carbon copy_. The addresses in this field will not be shared with the other recipients of the email.

## Mass Emails are Obnoxious
Nobody wants to read the 90 responses and side conversations from the folks that love to always "Reply All."

## Mass Emails Hinder Recipient Privacy
Dear Startup Founder/Venture Fund Manager/Chamber of Commerce affiliate,

When you send out a mass email to a group of investors, you are forfeiting each one of these people's emails (and a bit of their privacy) to the other recipients, as well as anyone to whom this email is forwarded. Don't do this.

Love,

Responsible Users of the Internet

## It's Okay; We've All Done It
We've all made this mistake and (hopefully) learned from it. Don't fret your hideous tendancies of emails past. Go forth from this day and send your 50 person email&mdash;_using Bcc_&mdash;with the confidence that you are not being a jerk.
